do Chuck that bunnies have anything to
do with your heritage hey guys welcome
back Gregory Ryan here we're breaking
down twin peaks' episodes 3 & 4 for you
but before we get into it make sure to
hit that subscribe button for even more
awesome GameSpot Universe content we got
movies comics TV all kinds of great
stuff we got a lot in these episodes we
got mr. jackpots Bobby Briggs returns
and Wally brando wally freakin brando
alright so we're back with the
continuing story of agent Cooper he has
now fallen into this weird little room
we don't know what it is exactly there's
an ocean outside it looks a little bit
like an early David Lynch films got a
little bit of an elephant man feel or
some of the short films the way it's
edited to it feels like a very much of
David Lynch music video I know he did
the sound design for this episode and it
was about like 6 or 7 different editors
he has on that absolutely so we've got a
blind woman we've got a slamming door
we've got a weird looking light socket
with the number 15 on it
yes and those numbers come back again we
finally get answers at least one answer
to those numbers the tree gave out the
two five three two five three is
apparently the time you can leave that
room it's also the time in Bob's car
we'll get to that little bit yes when
Dale returns from the crazy satellite
the socket lights socket electrical
socket whatever hang is on the wall has
the number on it has changed from 15 to
3 he and if you transpose those numbers
you get 315 just another clue which is
his Great Northern room key which is the
only possession other than his suit that
he appears with once he appears at
Rancho Rosa
even Lisa's shoes behind in the other
world and when he finally leaves that
place where is he go the suburbs what I
liked about all the burbs stuff
immediately you hear cops sirens in the
background the very first shot you get
of that town and immediately right after
you got prostitution you got hit man and
then you also got this child with a drug
riddle mother possibly
with the one one nine one one nine pure
Lynch when it comes to just looking at
this small town and everything all the
vice and seedy traffic goes on it's a
sort of decaying americana underneath
all the prettiness yes and it and it of
course it takes place in what outwardly
looks like beautiful new homes yeah
but underneath it's so beautiful so we
find that Dale has switched places with
someone named dougie Jones another
doppelganger yet another one and I'm
like 99% certain that Bob created this
guy yes it's manufactured even mike
tells us that in the room when they go
back to the red room right when he
disappears he's just a manufactured
product by Bob someone manufactured you
and also what sort of speaks to that too
is the L cave ring that he's wearing
yeah this is a ring that has appeared at
other times in the Twin Peaks series
notably on Teresa banks before she died
also notably
she had numbness in the arm as well
people have been pointed out that they
think those guys the Hitman they're
going after Doug Jones were sent there
by Bob I think that just has to do with
his whatever his gambling deal is
whatever he owes money to he definitely
has a gambling debt yeah there's
definitely people after him the bumbling
hitmen are kind of a callback to
Mulholland Drive where we saw a bumbling
hitmen there and in that case they were
maybe the lowest form of pawn in a
scheme but they definitely weren't like
direct operatives for yeah someone like
Bob yeah after Dale is taken away from
the Rancho Rosa community he finds
himself in a casino and this is where we
learned that it's really not precisely
Dale Cooper we have it's mr. jackpots
[Laughter]
now he's being guided by something in
that room to get him to go each machine
and if you look close it is a little
hole to the Red Room right so there's
maybe a chance here and we're seeing a
little bit off and on that maybe mike is
trying to guide him through his
reintroduction after 25 years someone in
that room is helping it maybe not Mike
it could be Laura it could be Leland for
all we know but someone's trying to help
him and give him cash or something to
get him on his way I don't know yet but
they're guiding him someone is guiding
him obviously through these but he's
getting help yes finally in Episode
three we see the return of two of my
favorite characters in the whole series
agent Albert and agent Gordon Cole what
the hell what I love most is that very
first time you see them they're breaking
down this weird case that's going on and
there's a picture of a supermodel
another picture of two just women
bikinis you got a gun and or a little
boy all that stuff is just for people
like us or watching taking knows gonna
home okay we got to remember this down
the line
it's just Lynch [ __ ] with it I think
it's nonsense it's complete nonsense
these are two of the most iconic
personality characters in a series of
iconic personalities the
stick-in-the-mud agent albert who hates
absolutely everything and the like sort
of like caring almost generous heart of
Gordon Cole that are these like sort of
driving forces in the FBI realm of Twin
Peaks and finally at the end of that
episode we got a cool shot Payne Cole's
office where you have that big mushroom
cloud poster paint on the wall the
American flag is red phone
that's all David Lynch telling us Rob we
have certain mystery of the strange
forces of existence okay that's pretty
much all we have for episode three but
let us know what you thought in the
comments yeah who's the woman in the
room knocking on that door
and what is major Briggs doing in space
I have an idea about what major Briggs
doing in space though in this next
episode yeah let's get on episode 4 so
episode 4 opens with mr. jackpot still
at the casino breaking the bank
he's cleaning out now I don't think we
saw very much going on in that sequence
it's just sort of plods along
and if there's anything that you notice
that we didn't also let us know about
that I'm dad he gets a limo ride home to
the house with the red door and after he
gets out of the limo there's a there's
an owl circling overhead which leads to
maybe the possibility that in addition
to him being manufactured his whole
family could possibly be manufactured by
Bob just the clues are they are telling
you that something's wrong here the way
that they only wants his character talks
to him after you know he's not right in
the head you there's something wrong and
they continue to still like treat him
like he's normal and we've also seen
Naomi Watts play a manufactured
character before in the holland drive
where betty was sort of the doppelganger
of Diane Selwyn
yeah brick through the looking-glass
here people okay now we come back to
agent Cole and agent Albert yes they
have now traveled to see Bob Cooper he's
been captured and he's a little weird to
his lines of dialogue is he messed up
too after what happened that's what I'm
thinking I'm thinking that you know mr.
Jack pots isn't exactly Dale Cooper and
this guy that they have isn't exactly
Bob Cooper he he definitely appears
messed up he does not seem as like
coherent as he was before I will tell
you the whole story all its twists and
turns this segues into a scene between
agent Albert and agent Cole where it's
completely washed out in blue Lynch tau
and then stop Gordon turns up his
hearing aid all the way so that they can
whisper and they talk about the Blue
Rose Blue Rose
it doesn't get any blower Blue Rose is
the designation for sort of x-files in
the Twin Peaks universe right these are
cases that Gordon Cole was working on
over the years and some of those cases
involved Dale Cooper some Phillip
Jeffries and also Windom Earle now there
may be a connection to blue rose and
Project Blue Book which is a classified
operation that major Briggs was a part
of and also when Demerol we also know
that research from Project Blue Book led
to discoveries of the white and black
life and somehow some way I think this
connects to Ruth Davenport's murder I'm
gonna take a shot at this I believe that
body in the room is major Briggs that
seems like a stretch to me to get it's
floating head saying blue rose alluding
to the decapitation again little things
like that pop up I don't know I can kind
of see it but I'd like to see what other
people think of the comments I think Bob
killed him this is my theory I think Bob
killed him
oh [ __ ] buddy I got a dig a little
deeper there's no pepe so you gotta be
kidding me I got boxes full of Pepe okay
now for some quick thoughts uh this
episode had two of our favorite scenes
so far in the series easily and honestly
they're the ones that sold me on it I
was a little bit skeptical leading up to
this but the first one that really got
me was the reintroduction of Bobby
Briggs and his meltdown over seeing the
photo of Laura
[Music]
that scene really is like the JumpStart
of this is Twin Peaks the melodramatic
crying the music the score kicking in at
the right time
that is competes and his momentary
pulling himself out of it to have this
sort of like mundane line it's so good
it's delicious brings back some memories
this scene is immediately followed by
the introduction of Andy and Lucy's son
Wally Brando played by Michael Cera from
Alexandria Virginia Stockton California
I think about Louis and his friend Clark
the first Caucasians see this part of
the world Michael Cera turns in this
bizarrely kind of cute impression of
Brando and on the Wild Ones
it is hilarious the group that I was
watching the show with we were having a
hysterical laughing fit I missed half of
the dialogue during that scene just
because we were laughing so much he
recites a poem yes now there are just a
couple of tidbits out of that that I
think are worth mentioning one thing
that he says is that my shadow is always
with me except that when it's cloudy or
at night he also says to sheriff
Truman's brother sheriff Truman my
Dharma is the road your Dharma is
and we shall see where that leads it's
worth mentioning to that sheriff
Truman's brother sheriff Truman is
played by Robert Forrester yes and he's
now one of several actors we've seen
from a Holland Drive so we had him Naomi
was Naomi Watts
Brent Briscoe is one of the cops and
also Patrick Fischler was in the Vegas
Tower answering to we think the
billionaire that's right and that
character of all of them is the most
similar to his character Mahalo dr who
saw the man behind the Winkies mm-hmm
also Denise returns David company's
character and I love the line of
dialogue or as she says don't just love
sometimes saying Federal Bureau of
Investigation like that all at once the
way she says it is a little bit of a
callback to the way Dale Cooper says it
and also x-files
we had a lot of vomiting in this episode
as well some absolutely great vomiting I
would say some awesome movie vomiting
fans of the series will probably
rightfully connect it to Garmin Bhoja
from the original seasons but what I
kind of want to call out is a really
tenuous tie that isn't really a hint or
a clue or anything but this vomit is
about as good as you would get from like
Evil Dead yeah and the kind of
connection I want to draw there is that
the cinematographer of the series is
Peter Deming who also shot people dangle
dead
those are our thoughts and theories on
episodes three and four of Twin Peaks
the return definitely hit the subscribe
button if you want to check out more
down the road and last on the comments
section if we missed anything until next
time see you guys later